# version-control
Version control, also known as revision control or source control.  the management of changes to documents, computer programs, large web sites, and other collections of information. The need for a logical way to organize and control revisions has existed for almost as long as writing  has existed, but revision control became much more important, and complicated, when the era of computing began. Today, the most capable (as well as complex) revision control systems are those used in software development, where a team of people may change the same files. Version control systems (VCS) most commonly run as stand-alone applications, but revision control is also embedded in various types of software such as word processors and spreadsheets, In computer software engineering, revision control is any kind of practice that tracks and provides control over changes to source code. At the simplest level, developers could simply retain multiple copies of the different versions of the program, and label them appropriately. This simple approach has been used on many large software projects. While this method can work, it is inefficient as many near-identical copies of the program have to be maintained. This requires a lot of self-discipline on the part of developers, and often leads to mistakes.Revision control manages changes to a set of data over time. Often the data is thought of as a collection of many individual items, such as files or documents, and changes to individual files are tracked. but causes problems when identify changes, such as during renaming, splitting, or merging of files. some systems, like Git, instead consider changes to the data as a whole, but simplifies more complex changes.Engineering revision control developed from formalized processes based on tracking revisions of early blueprints. This system of control implicitly allowed returning to any earlier state of the design, for cases in which an engineering dead-end was reached in the development of the design. A revision table was used to keep track of the changes made.in Version control made a change to code and need to revert back to a known good state have to maintain multiple versions of the software wanted to see the difference between two revisions wanted to test if a particular a version is broken or fixed wanted to see how long existed for wanted to experiment without interfering with working code )anyone can edit his or her code at any time n every one else will be automatically updated  track changes and merge them
